# Difference betweem RC and Deployment

## Replication Controller

A replication controller ensures that a specified number of pod “replicas” are running at any one time. In other words, a replication controller makes sure that a pod or homogeneous set of pods are always up and available. If there are too many pods, it will kill some. If there are too few, the replication controller will start more. Unlike manually created pods, the pods maintained by a replication controller are automatically replaced if they fail, get deleted, or are terminated. For example, your pods get re-created on a node after disruptive maintenance such as a kernel upgrade. For this reason, we recommend that you use a replication controller even if your application requires only a single pod. You can think of a replication controller as something similar to a process supervisor, but rather than individual processes on a single node, the replication controller supervises multiple pods across multiple nodes.

Replication Controller is often abbreviated to “rc” or “rcs” in discussion, and as a shortcut in kubectl commands.

A simple case is to create 1 Replication Controller object in order to reliably run one instance of a Pod indefinitely. A more complex use case is to run several identical replicas of a replicated service, such as web servers.

## Deployment

A Deployment provides declarative updates for Pods and Replica Sets (the next-generation Replication Controller). You only need to describe the desired state in a Deployment object, and the Deployment controller will change the actual state to the desired state at a controlled rate for you. You can define Deployments to create new resources, or replace existing ones by new ones.
A typical use case is:

* Create a Deployment to bring up a Replica Set and Pods.
* Check the status of a Deployment to see if it succeeds or not.
* Later, update that Deployment to recreate the Pods (for example, to use a new image).
* Rollback to an earlier Deployment revision if the current Deployment isn’t stable.
* Pause and resume a Deployment.

## Replica Sets

Replica Set is the next-generation Replication Controller. The only difference between a Replica Set and a Replication Controller right now is the selector support. Replica Set supports the new set-based selector requirements as described in the labels user guide whereas a Replication Controller only supports equality-based selector requirements.

#### Set-based requirements

Newer resources, such as Job, Deployment, Replica Set, and Daemon Set, support set-based requirements as well.

```yaml
selector:
  matchLabels:
    component: redis
  matchExpressions:
    - {key: tier, operator: In, values: [cache]}
    - {key: environment, operator: NotIn, values: [dev]}
```

MatchLabels is a map of {key,value} pairs. A single {key,value} in the matchLabels map is equivalent to an element of matchExpressions, whose key field is “key”, the operator is “In”, and the values array contains only “value”. matchExpressions is a list of pod selector requirements. Valid operators include In, NotIn, Exists, and DoesNotExist. The values set must be non-empty in the case of In and NotIn. All of the requirements, from both matchLabels and matchExpressions are ANDed together – they must all be satisfied in order to match.

