# Kubernetes Operation

## Basic command lines

```shell
# get cluster info
$ kubectl cluster-info

# `kubectl run` creates a Deployment named on Kubernetes cluster >= v1.2
$ kubectl run my-nginx --image=10.126.98.3:5000/nginx:1.0 --port=9876 --replicas=2
	
# get default namespace pod with more infomation
$ kubectl get po -o wide --all-namespaces
	
# describe pod
$ kubectl describe pod $podName

# get pod logs
$ kubectl logs $podName

# delete pod
$ kubectl delete pod $podName
	
# get deployment
$ kubectl get deployment

# expose service to the public internet
$ kubectl expose deployment $deployName --target-port=80 --type=LoadBalancer
	
# delete deployment
$ kubectl delete deployment $deployName

# describe service
$ kubectl describe service $serviceName

# describe endpoints
$ kubectl get endpoints

# get into container
$ kubectl exec $podName -c $containerName -i -t -- bash -il
$ kubectl exec -ti $podName -- /bin/sh 

# get cluster info
$ kubectl cluster-info

# get endpoints, before use this command, make sure that cluster dns works well
$ kubectl get endpoints

# describe service
$ kubectl describe service $serviceName

# get service
$ kubectl get service --namespace=kube-system

# get pod log
$ kubectl logs -f $podName
```

### 2. deploy pod by json

#### Pod configuration file

```json
{
  "kind": "Pod",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "",
    "labels": {
      "name": ""
    },
    "generateName": "",
    "namespace": "",
    "annotations": []
  },
  "spec": {
	
    // See 'The spec schema' for details.
	
  }
}
``` 
	
Required fields are:
	
* kind: Always Pod.
* apiVersion: Currently v1.
* metadata: An object containing:
	* name: Required if generateName is not specified. The name of this pod. It must be an RFC1035 compatible value and be unique within the namespace.
	* labels: Optional. Labels are arbitrary key:value pairs that can be used by Deployment and services for grouping and targeting pods.
	* generateName: Required if name is not set. A prefix to use to generate a unique name. Has the same validation rules as name.
	* namespace: Required. The namespace of the pod.
	* annotations: Optional. A map of string keys and values that can be used by external tooling to store and retrieve arbitrary metadata about objects.
* spec: The pod specification. See The spec schema for details.

#### The spec schema

```json
"spec": {
  "containers": [
    {
      "name": "",
      "image": "",
      "command": [
        ""
      ],
      "args": [
        ""
      ],
      "env": [
        {
          "name": "",
          "value": ""
        }
      ],
      "imagePullPolicy": "",
      "ports": [
        {
          "containerPort": 0,
          "name": "",
          "protocol": ""
        }
      ],
      "resources": {
        "cpu": "",
        "memory": ""
      }
    }
  ],
  "restartPolicy": "",
  "volumes": [
    {
      "name": "",
      "emptyDir": {
        "medium": ""
      },
      "secret": {
        "secretName": ""
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> Containers

A list of containers belonging to the pod. Containers cannot be added or removed once the pod is created, and there must be at least one container in a pod.
The containers object must contain:

* name: Name of the container. It must be a DNS_LABEL and be unique within the pod. Cannot be updated.
* image: Docker image name.
	
The containers object commonly contains the following optional properties:

* command[]: The entrypoint array. Commands are not executed within a shell. The docker image’s entrypoint is used if this is not provided. Cannot be updated.
* args[]: A command array containing arguments to the entrypoint. The docker image’s cmd is used if this is not provided. Cannot be updated.
* env[]: A list of environment variables in key:value format to set in the container. Cannot be updated.
	* name: The name of the environment variable; must be a C_IDENTIFIER.
	* value: The value of the environment variable. Defaults to empty string.
* imagePullPolicy: The image pull policy. Accepted values are:
	* Always
	* Never
	* IfNotPresent Defaults to Always if :latest tag is specified, or IfNotPresent otherwise. Cannot be updated.
* ports[]: A list of ports to expose from the container. Cannot be updated.
	* containerPort: The port number to expose on the pod’s IP address.
	* name: The name for the port that can be referred to by services. Must be a DNS_LABEL and be unique without the pod.
	* protocol: Protocol for the port. Must be UDP or TCP. Default is TCP.
* resources: The Compute resources required by this container. Contains:
	* cpu: CPUs to reserve for each container. Default is whole CPUs; scale suffixes (e.g. 100m for one hundred milli-CPUs) are supported. If the host does not have enough available resources, your pod will not be scheduled.
	* memory: Memory to reserve for each container. Default is bytes; binary scale suffixes (e.g. 100Mi for one hundred mebibytes) are supported. If the host does not have enough available resources, your pod will not be scheduled.Cannot be updated.

> restartPolicy

Restart policy for all containers within the pod. Options are:

* Always
* OnFailure
* Never

> volumes[]

A list of volumes that can be mounted by containers belonging to the pod. You must specify a name and a source for each volume. The container must also include a volumeMount with matching name. Source is one of:

* emptyDir: A temporary directory that shares a pod’s lifetime. Contains:
	* medium: The type of storage used to back the volume. Must be an empty string (default) or Memory.
* hostPath: A pre-existing host file or directory. This is generally used for privileged system daemons or other agents tied to the host. Contains:
	* path: The path of the directory on the host.
* secret: Secret to populate volume. Secrets are used to hold sensitive information, such as passwords, OAuth tokens, and SSH keys. Learn more from the docs on secrets. Contains:
	* secretName: The name of a secret in the pod’s namespace.
	
The name must be a DNS_LABEL and unique within the pod.

#### Sample file

```json
{
  "kind": "Pod",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "redis-django",
    "labels": {
      "app": "webapp"
    }
  },
  "spec": {
    "containers": [
      {
        "name": "key-value-store",
        "image": "redis",
        "ports": [
          {
            "containerPort": 6379
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "name": "frontend",
        "image": "django",
        "ports": [
          {
            "containerPort": 8000
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

